743.4 add discovery to capacitor (#952)
openmsupply/open-msupply: client/packages/android/README.MD

# Mobile App with Discovery

> The client app is bundled with the server, on Android app can run as standalone site with a local server, as a client connecting to another server or as a server for other clients.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Android app can run as standalone site with a local server, as a client connecting to another server or as a server for other clients.
```
First part is already mentioned in the last sentence

Author: 🙏

On android, the server always starts and this allows for one mobile app for both client and client/server. 
The mobile app will broadcast via dns sd and will be reachable by both Mobile and Electron clients on the local network. 
We are using Capacitor to make use of existing optimisations and large library of native plugins. 

> All UI is served by bundled server, including discovery.

Reviewer: When connected to another server the UI is served through the connected server isn't it?

Author: ohh yeah, thanks: 7693ec6c12347c61ab91645965ca53b7601de6cc, not as clear as I wanted, but should make sense

## Debugging

It's recommended to use Android Studio for debugging and running Android App, there is a lot of functionality that cannot be replicated in Visual Studio Code (although there are some extensions for Visual Studio Code they are quite limited).

Debugging native code is straight forward, breakpoint in Android Studio and press debug. 

Debugging web app code is done by opening `chrome://inspect`, you should see Web View when app is running in emulator. When bundled is served from remote server (default setup), js bunlde is minimised and this makes debugging very hard, however we can run the bundle from webpack server by commenting out plugins section in `capacitor.config.ts` and entering your local ip in the debugUrl field and running `yarn apply-config`. Please make sure that you start front end server with `yarn start-local` from 'client' directory for this to work.

Please note that when debugging with live reload, connections to a discovered server will always go through to the webpack server (regardless of which server is being selected).

> When running android app in emulator, service discovery will not work outside of the emulator network, to test this you will need to run on a device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When running the Android app in an emulator the service discovery will not work outside of the emulator network, to test discovery you will need to run the app on a physical device.
```

# Mobile App with Discovery

> It's bundled with server, server always start and allows for one app for both client and client/server. Mobile app will broadcast via dns sd and will be reachable by both Mobile and Electron clients on local network. We are using Capacitor to make use of existing optimisations and large library of nativ plugins. All UI is served by bundled server, including discovery.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The client app is bundled with the server. On android, the server always starts and this allows for one mobile app for both client and client/server. The mobile app will broadcast via dns sd and will be reachable by both Mobile and Electron clients on the local network. We are using Capacitor to make use of existing optimisations and large library of native plugins. All UI is served by bundled server, including discovery.
```

Author: 🙏

## Getting started

First of all, need to make sure that you can build [server binaries](../../../server/android/README.md)

> When you are confident they are building, can use `yarn build:server` form this directoy, this builds `libremote_server_lib.so` binaries and relocated them to `app/src/main/jniLibs`, see `RemoteServer.java` for more details of how these libs are loaded. It's important to note that web app is bundled in the remote server binary, and web app needs to be built from `client` directory with `yarn build` command, so it's best to use `yarn android:build:server` from client directory as it does both (builds web app and then build android remote server).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you are confident they are building, can use `yarn build:server` form this directoy, this builds `libremote_server_lib.so` binaries and relocate them to `app/src/main/jniLibs`, see `RemoteServer.java` for more details of how these libs are loaded. It's important to note that web app is bundled in the remote server binary, and web app needs to be built from `client` directory with `yarn build` command, so it's best to use `yarn android:build:server` from client directory as it does both (builds web app and then build android remote server).
```

Next step is to open this directory in Android Studio, this will engage gradle sync process (initialising pre-requisites etc.), if you get an error during 'sync' process Android Studio should outline the issue with suggested fix. Usually you will need to either set `ANDROID_SDK_ROOT` or add `sdk.dir` in `local.properties` file, and skd is usually located in `/Users/{user}/Library/Android/sdk/`. Pressing play (run) should restart sync process.

## Debugging

> It's recommended to use Android Studio for debuggin and running Android App, there is a lot of functionality that cannot be replicated in Visual Studio Code (although there are some extensions for Visual Studio Code they are quite limited).

Author: I did global replace for this, 🙏

### Know script issues

When building apk `properties.local` files is required (it can be empty). Also can sometime get a lock on gradle build, can run `find ~/.gradle -type f -name "*.lock" -delete` to fix it

## Release build

Make sure you have an Android keystore for signing the release apk.
Create a file `local.properties` and add the required key store parameters:

```
storeFile=path/to/key/store.jks
keyAlias={mykey}
storePassword={password}
keyPassword={password}
```

and run:

```
yarn build:release
```

The apk will be located in `app/build/outputs/apk/release`.

It's best to run `yarn android:build:release` from client directory to make sure front end is bundled correctly in the server

## Adding plugins

Apart from usual local/packaged plugin setup for Capacitor, make sure to add plugin name to `onPageStarted` method in `ExtendedWebViewClient.java` (you can see what plugin names are available by using Android Studio debug and inspecting `bridge.plugins`).

Example of expanding local native functionality.

> ## Capacitor modifications

Author: I've added a note: f1bb890c36e64fe0af590576b9bfa8443c2db7f0

A few configuration/modifications were made to make sure we can serve Android bundle from the server rather then static bundle with the app (this allows upgrades to server to reflect in the android app when android app is connected as a client to external server, we would still need to upgrade android app when native functionality is added).

> 1. capacitor.config.ts (see comment in that file)

Author: It's been relocated, to keep it in related package

> 2. Capacitor `proxies` fetches and tries to modify html files to include pre-requisite <scripts>, since this proxy is done manually using java.net.URL and our servers generate self signe certs, and error is thrown and pre requisite scripts are not inserted, `ExtendedWebViewClient` was created for that reason. [Discussion](https://github.com/ionic-team/capacitor/discussions/6166) was made on capacitor github to see if there is another way to overcome this.

Author: > Is this still correct:

It does sound right, I guess the low level details is missing, but that's not needed. 

> Does this mean we don't proxy pages? how does it work?

I've added a seperate comment for that one
